.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

## Are you creating an issue in the correct repository?

- When in doubt, create an issue here.
- If you have an issue with the Jasmine docs, file an issue in the docs repo
  here: https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine.github.io
- This repository is for the core Jasmine framework
- If you are using a test runner that wraps Jasmine, consider filing an issue with that library if appropriate:
  - [Jasmine npm](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-npm/issues)
  - [Jasmine gem](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-gem/issues)
  - [Jasmine py](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-py/issues)
  - [Gulp Jasmine Browser](https://github.com/jasmine/gulp-jasmine-browser/issues)
  - [Karma](https://github.com/karma-runner/karma/issues)
  - [Grunt Contrib Jasmine](https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt-contrib-jasmine/issues)

<!--- Provide a general summary of the issue in the Title above -->

## Expected Behavior
<!--- If you're describing a bug, tell us what should happen -->
<!--- If you're suggesting a change/improvement, tell us how it should work -->

## Current Behavior
<!--- If describing a bug, tell us what happens instead of the expected behavior -->
<!--- If suggesting a change/improvement, explain the difference from current behavior -->

## Possible Solution
<!--- Not obligatory, but suggest a fix/reason for the bug, -->
<!--- or ideas how to implement the addition or change -->

## Suite that reproduces the behavior (for bugs)
<!--- Provide a sample suite that reproduces the bug. -->
```javascript
describe("sample", function() {
});
```
## Context
<!--- How has this issue affected you? What are you trying to accomplish? -->
<!--- Providing context helps us come up with a solution that is most useful in the real world -->

## Your Environment
<!--- Include as many relevant details about the environment you experienced the bug in -->
* Version used:
* Environment name and version (e.g. Chrome 39, node.js 5.4):
* Operating System and version (desktop or mobile):
* Link to your project:

Commit message:

Added TS typings and jasmine-browser-runner to issue template

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

## Are you creating an issue in the correct repository?

- When in doubt, create an issue here.
- If you have an issue with the Jasmine docs, file an issue in the docs repo
  here: https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine.github.io
- If you have an issue with TypeScript typings, start a discussion at
  [DefinitelyTpyed](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/discussions/new?category=issues-with-a-types-package)
- This repository is for the core Jasmine framework
- If you are using a test runner that wraps Jasmine, consider filing an issue with that library if appropriate:
  - [Jasmine npm](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-npm/issues)
  - [Jasmine browser runner](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-browser/issues)
  - [Jasmine gem](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-gem/issues)
  - [Jasmine py](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-py/issues)
  - [Gulp Jasmine Browser](https://github.com/jasmine/gulp-jasmine-browser/issues)
  - [Karma](https://github.com/karma-runner/karma/issues)
  - [Grunt Contrib Jasmine](https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt-contrib-jasmine/issues)

<!--- Provide a general summary of the issue in the Title above -->

## Expected Behavior
<!--- If you're describing a bug, tell us what should happen -->
<!--- If you're suggesting a change/improvement, tell us how it should work -->

## Current Behavior
<!--- If describing a bug, tell us what happens instead of the expected behavior -->
<!--- If suggesting a change/improvement, explain the difference from current behavior -->

## Possible Solution
<!--- Not obligatory, but suggest a fix/reason for the bug, -->
<!--- or ideas how to implement the addition or change -->

## Suite that reproduces the behavior (for bugs)
<!--- Provide a sample suite that reproduces the bug. -->
```javascript
describe("sample", function() {
});
```
## Context
<!--- How has this issue affected you? What are you trying to accomplish? -->
<!--- Providing context helps us come up with a solution that is most useful in the real world -->

## Your Environment
<!--- Include as many relevant details about the environment you experienced the bug in -->
* Version used:
* Environment name and version (e.g. Chrome 39, node.js 5.4):
* Operating System and version (desktop or mobile):
* Link to your project:
