README.md, before:

<a name="README">[<img src="https://rawgithub.com/jasmine/jasmine/main/images/jasmine-horizontal.svg" width="400px" />](http://jasmine.github.io)</a>

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jasmine/jasmine.svg?branch=main)](https://travis-ci.org/jasmine/jasmine)
[![Open Source Helpers](https://www.codetriage.com/jasmine/jasmine/badges/users.svg)](https://www.codetriage.com/jasmine/jasmine)
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.io/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fjasmine%2Fjasmine.svg?type=shield)](https://app.fossa.io/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fjasmine%2Fjasmine?ref=badge_shield)

# A JavaScript Testing Framework

Jasmine is a Behavior Driven Development testing framework for JavaScript. It does not rely on browsers, DOM, or any JavaScript framework. Thus it's suited for websites, [Node.js](http://nodejs.org) projects, or anywhere that JavaScript can run.

Documentation & guides live here: [http://jasmine.github.io](http://jasmine.github.io/)
For a quick start guide of Jasmine, see the beginning of [http://jasmine.github.io/edge/introduction.html](http://jasmine.github.io/edge/introduction.html).

Upgrading from Jasmine 2.x? Check out the [3.0 release notes](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine/blob/v3.0.0/release_notes/3.0.md) for a list of what's new (including breaking changes).

## Contributing

Please read the [contributors' guide](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Installation

For the Jasmine NPM module:<br>
[https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-npm](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-npm).

For the Jasmine Ruby Gem:<br>
[https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-gem](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-gem).

For the Jasmine Python Egg:<br>
[https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-py](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-py).

For the Jasmine headless browser gulp plugin:<br>
[https://github.com/jasmine/gulp-jasmine-browser](https://github.com/jasmine/gulp-jasmine-browser).

To install Jasmine standalone on your local box (where **_{#.#.#}_** below is substituted by the release number downloaded):

* Download the standalone distribution for your desired release from the [releases page](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine/releases).
* Create a Jasmine directory in your project. - `mkdir my-project/jasmine`
* Move the dist to your project directory. - `mv jasmine/dist/jasmine-standalone-{#.#.#}.zip my-project/jasmine`
* Change directory. - `cd my-project/jasmine`
* Unzip the dist. - `unzip jasmine-standalone-{#.#.#}.zip`

Add the following to your HTML file:

```html
<link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/png" href="jasmine/lib/jasmine-{#.#.#}/jasmine_favicon.png">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="jasmine/lib/jasmine-{#.#.#}/jasmine.css">

<script type="text/javascript" src="jasmine/lib/jasmine-{#.#.#}/jasmine.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="jasmine/lib/jasmine-{#.#.#}/jasmine-html.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="jasmine/lib/jasmine-{#.#.#}/boot.js"></script>
```

## Supported environments

Jasmine tests itself across many browsers (Safari, Chrome, Firefox, Microsoft Edge, and new Internet Explorer) as well as nodejs. To see the exact version tests are run against look at our [.travis.yml](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine/blob/main/.travis.yml).

## Support

* Search past discussions: [http://groups.google.com/group/jasmine-js](http://groups.google.com/group/jasmine-js).
* Send an email to the list: [jasmine-js@googlegroups.com](mailto:jasmine-js@googlegroups.com).
* View the project backlog at Pivotal Tracker: [http://www.pivotaltracker.com/projects/10606](http://www.pivotaltracker.com/projects/10606).
* Follow us on Twitter: [@JasmineBDD](http://twitter.com/JasmineBDD).

## Maintainers

* [Gregg Van Hove](mailto:gvanhove@pivotal.io), Pivotal Labs

### Maintainers Emeritus

* [Davis W. Frank](mailto:dwfrank@pivotal.io), Pivotal Labs
* [Rajan Agaskar](mailto:rajan@pivotal.io), Pivotal Labs
* [Greg Cobb](mailto:gcobb@pivotal.io), Pivotal Labs
* [Chris Amavisca](mailto:camavisca@pivotal.io), Pivotal Labs
* [Christian Williams](mailto:antixian666@gmail.com), Cloud Foundry
* Sheel Choksi

Copyright (c) 2008-2018 Pivotal Labs. This software is licensed under the MIT License.


## License
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.io/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fjasmine%2Fjasmine.svg?type=large)](https://app.fossa.io/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fjasmine%2Fjasmine?ref=badge_large)

Commit message:

Removed IE from Travis build matrix
We still support IE 10 and 11, but the Node selenium-webdriver has
serious problems with it. Until that's fixed or worked around, IE builds
won't pass. This gets us otherwise green so we can easily see if
anything else is broken.

README.md, after:

<a name="README">[<img src="https://rawgithub.com/jasmine/jasmine/main/images/jasmine-horizontal.svg" width="400px" />](http://jasmine.github.io)</a>

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jasmine/jasmine.svg?branch=main)](https://travis-ci.org/jasmine/jasmine)
[![Open Source Helpers](https://www.codetriage.com/jasmine/jasmine/badges/users.svg)](https://www.codetriage.com/jasmine/jasmine)
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.io/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fjasmine%2Fjasmine.svg?type=shield)](https://app.fossa.io/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fjasmine%2Fjasmine?ref=badge_shield)

# A JavaScript Testing Framework

Jasmine is a Behavior Driven Development testing framework for JavaScript. It does not rely on browsers, DOM, or any JavaScript framework. Thus it's suited for websites, [Node.js](http://nodejs.org) projects, or anywhere that JavaScript can run.

Documentation & guides live here: [http://jasmine.github.io](http://jasmine.github.io/)
For a quick start guide of Jasmine, see the beginning of [http://jasmine.github.io/edge/introduction.html](http://jasmine.github.io/edge/introduction.html).

Upgrading from Jasmine 2.x? Check out the [3.0 release notes](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine/blob/v3.0.0/release_notes/3.0.md) for a list of what's new (including breaking changes).

## Contributing

Please read the [contributors' guide](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Installation

For the Jasmine NPM module:<br>
[https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-npm](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-npm).

For the Jasmine Ruby Gem:<br>
[https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-gem](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-gem).

For the Jasmine Python Egg:<br>
[https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-py](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-py).

For the Jasmine headless browser gulp plugin:<br>
[https://github.com/jasmine/gulp-jasmine-browser](https://github.com/jasmine/gulp-jasmine-browser).

To install Jasmine standalone on your local box (where **_{#.#.#}_** below is substituted by the release number downloaded):

* Download the standalone distribution for your desired release from the [releases page](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine/releases).
* Create a Jasmine directory in your project. - `mkdir my-project/jasmine`
* Move the dist to your project directory. - `mv jasmine/dist/jasmine-standalone-{#.#.#}.zip my-project/jasmine`
* Change directory. - `cd my-project/jasmine`
* Unzip the dist. - `unzip jasmine-standalone-{#.#.#}.zip`

Add the following to your HTML file:

```html
<link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/png" href="jasmine/lib/jasmine-{#.#.#}/jasmine_favicon.png">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="jasmine/lib/jasmine-{#.#.#}/jasmine.css">

<script type="text/javascript" src="jasmine/lib/jasmine-{#.#.#}/jasmine.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="jasmine/lib/jasmine-{#.#.#}/jasmine-html.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="jasmine/lib/jasmine-{#.#.#}/boot.js"></script>
```

## Supported environments

Jasmine tests itself across many browsers (Safari, Chrome, Firefox, Microsoft Edge, and Internet Explorer) as well as nodejs.

| Environment       | Supported versions |
|-------------------|--------------------|
| Node              | 8, 10, 12          |
| Safari            | 8-13               |
| Chrome            | Evergreen          |
| Firefox           | Evergreen, 68      |
| Edge              | Evergreen          |
| Internet Explorer | 10, 11             |

For evergreen browsers, each version of Jasmine is tested against the version of the browser that is available to us
at the time of release. Other browsers, as well as older & newer versions of some supported browsers, are likely to work.
However, Jasmine isn't tested against them and they aren't actively supported. 

## Support

* Search past discussions: [http://groups.google.com/group/jasmine-js](http://groups.google.com/group/jasmine-js).
* Send an email to the list: [jasmine-js@googlegroups.com](mailto:jasmine-js@googlegroups.com).
* View the project backlog at Pivotal Tracker: [http://www.pivotaltracker.com/projects/10606](http://www.pivotaltracker.com/projects/10606).
* Follow us on Twitter: [@JasmineBDD](http://twitter.com/JasmineBDD).

## Maintainers

* [Gregg Van Hove](mailto:gvanhove@pivotal.io), Pivotal Labs

### Maintainers Emeritus

* [Davis W. Frank](mailto:dwfrank@pivotal.io), Pivotal Labs
* [Rajan Agaskar](mailto:rajan@pivotal.io), Pivotal Labs
* [Greg Cobb](mailto:gcobb@pivotal.io), Pivotal Labs
* [Chris Amavisca](mailto:camavisca@pivotal.io), Pivotal Labs
* [Christian Williams](mailto:antixian666@gmail.com), Cloud Foundry
* Sheel Choksi

Copyright (c) 2008-2018 Pivotal Labs. This software is licensed under the MIT License.


## License
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.io/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fjasmine%2Fjasmine.svg?type=large)](https://app.fossa.io/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fjasmine%2Fjasmine?ref=badge_large)
