related.html.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Related Projects
---

# Related Projects

----

[jasmine-ajax](http://github.com/pivotal/jasmine-ajax)
> AJAX mocking for Jasmine.

[jasmine-iphone](http://github.com/pivotal/jasmine-iphone)
> Use Jasmine to drive your iPhone UI Automation tests.

[jasmine-jstd-adapter](http://github.com/ibolmo/jasmine-jstd-adapter)
> Jasmine adapter for JsTestDriver.

[jasmine-jquery](http://github.com/velesin/jasmine-jquery)
> jasmine-jquery provides extensions for Jasmine to support the jQuery framework and an API for handling HTML fixtures in your specs.

[jasmine-maven-plugin](http://github.com/searls/jasmine-maven-plugin)
> A Maven Plugin for processing JavaScript sources, specs, and executing Jasmine.

[jasmine-node](http://github.com/mhevery/jasmine-node)
> Makes Jasmine available in node.js.

[jasmine-reporters](http://github.com/larrymyers/jasmine-reporters)
> A collection of jasmine.Reporter classes that can be used with Jasmine.

[jasmine-tmbundle](http://github.com/pivotal/jasmine-tmbundle)
> A TextMate bundle for the Jasmine JavaScript BDD Framework.

[jasmine-webos](http://pivotal.github.com/jasmine-webos/)
> Jasmine webOS allows you to use Jasmine to test-drive Palm&reg; webOS&trade; applications.

[jazz_money](http://github.com/pivotalexperimental/jazz_money)
> Run your Jasmine specs without a browser.

----

If you'd like your project added, email <a href="mailto:jasmine-js@googlegroups.com">jasmine-js@googlegroups.com</a>.

Commit message:

Add link to vim snippets.

related.html.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Related Projects
---

# Related Projects

----

[jasmine-ajax](http://github.com/pivotal/jasmine-ajax)
> AJAX mocking for Jasmine.

[jasmine-iphone](http://github.com/pivotal/jasmine-iphone)
> Use Jasmine to drive your iPhone UI Automation tests.

[jasmine-jstd-adapter](http://github.com/ibolmo/jasmine-jstd-adapter)
> Jasmine adapter for JsTestDriver.

[jasmine-jquery](http://github.com/velesin/jasmine-jquery)
> jasmine-jquery provides extensions for Jasmine to support the jQuery framework and an API for handling HTML fixtures in your specs.

[jasmine-maven-plugin](http://github.com/searls/jasmine-maven-plugin)
> A Maven Plugin for processing JavaScript sources, specs, and executing Jasmine.

[jasmine-node](http://github.com/mhevery/jasmine-node)
> Makes Jasmine available in node.js.

[jasmine-reporters](http://github.com/larrymyers/jasmine-reporters)
> A collection of jasmine.Reporter classes that can be used with Jasmine.

[jasmine-tmbundle](http://github.com/pivotal/jasmine-tmbundle)
> A TextMate bundle for the Jasmine JavaScript BDD Framework.

[jasmine-webos](http://pivotal.github.com/jasmine-webos/)
> Jasmine webOS allows you to use Jasmine to test-drive Palm&reg; webOS&trade; applications.

[jazz_money](http://github.com/pivotalexperimental/jazz_money)
> Run your Jasmine specs without a browser.

[vim snippets](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=3249)
> A set of Vim snipMate snippets for Jasmine

----

If you'd like your project added, email <a href="mailto:jasmine-js@googlegroups.com">jasmine-js@googlegroups.com</a>.
