# Jasmine Core 5.9.0 Release Notes

## Bug fixes

* Avoid generating mock clock timer IDs that conflict with native ones 
  * Fixes [#2068](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine/issues/2068)
  * Merges [#2069](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine/pull/2069) from @atscott

## Deprecations and changes to platform support

* Node versions before 18.20.5 are no longer supported

  Older 18.x versions might still work, but Jasmine is no longer tested in them
  prior to release.
* Document that the filename properties of suite and spec results are deprecated

  These properties are incorrect in many configurations. They'll be removed in 
  the next major release unless there is enough user interest in fixing them. 
  See <https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine/issues/2065>.

## Internal improvements

* Extensive GlobalErrors refactoring
  * Removed many of the error dispatching differences between browsers and Node
  * Split into portable and platform-specific parts
  * Converted to ES6 classes
* Removed unnecessary errorWithStack helper

  Jasmine no longer runs on platforms that create errors without stack traces.
* Removed protections against user code redefining undefined

  Jasmine no longer runs on platforms that allow redefining undefined.
* Removed rimraf and shelljs dev dependencies

## Supported environments

This version has been tested in the following environments.

| Environment       | Supported versions      |
|-------------------|-------------------------|
| Node              | 18.20.5**, 20, 22, 24   |
| Safari            | 15**, 16**, 17**        |
| Chrome            | 138*                    |
| Firefox           | 102**, 115**, 128, 140* |
| Edge              | 138*                    |

\* Evergreen browser. Each version of Jasmine is tested against the latest
version available at release time.<br>
\** Supported on a best-effort basis. Support for these versions may be dropped
if it becomes impractical, and bugs affecting only these versions may not be
treated as release blockers.


------

_Release Notes generated with _[Anchorman](http://github.com/infews/anchorman)_
