# Jasmine Core 6.0.0-beta.0 Release Notes

This is a pre-release, intended to offer a preview of upcoming changes and to
solicit feedback.

## A Note About Pre-Release Compatibility

There may be additional breaking changes in future 6.0 pre-releases or in the
final 6.0 release. That's allowed by the semver specification, but users are
sometimes unpleasantly surprised by it.

NPM's implementation of carat version ranges assumes that subsequent
pre-releases and final releases are fully compatible with earlier pre-releases.
If your package.json contains `"jasmine-core": "^6.0.0-beta.0`,
NPM might install any later 6.x version even though there is no guarantee of
compatibility. If that isn't ok, you should specify an exact pre-release version:
`"jasmine-core": "6.0.0-beta.0`.


## Breaking changes

* boot1.js no longer adds jsApiReporter to the env.
* HtmlReporterV2 initialization and boot1.js have been simplified. If you 
  maintain your own boot file, update it to match the boot1.js included in this
  package.


## New features

* Statically exposed pretty printer as jasmine.pp().

## Bug fixes

* Fixed HtmlReporterV2 progress bar when running a subset of specs.


## Deprecations

* jsApiReporter is deprecated.
* Detect monkey patching and emit a deprecation warning.

## Documentation improvements

* Documented the set of possible spec statuses.


## Internal improvements

* Replaced isArray helper with native Array.isArray


## Supported environments

This version has been tested in the following environments.

| Environment       | Supported versions             |
|-------------------|--------------------------------|
| Node              | 20, 22, 24                     |
| Safari            | 16**, 17**, 26.1**             |
| Chrome            | 142*                           |
| Firefox           | 102**, 115**, 128**, 140, 145* |
| Edge              | 142*                           |

\* Evergreen browser. Each version of Jasmine is tested against the latest
version available at release time.<br>
\** Supported on a best-effort basis. Support for these versions may be dropped
if it becomes impractical, and bugs affecting only these versions may not be
treated as release blockers.



------

_Release Notes generated with _[Anchorman](http://github.com/infews/anchorman)_
