# Jasmine Core 6.0.0-alpha.2 Release Notes

This is a pre-release, intended to offer a preview of upcoming changes and to
solicit feedback.

## A Note About Pre-Release Compatibility

There may be additional breaking changes in future 6.0 pre-releases or in the
final 6.0 release. That's allowed by the semver specification, but users are
sometimes unpleasantly surprised by it.

NPM's implementation of carat version ranges assumes that subsequent
pre-releases and final releases are fully compatible with earlier pre-releases.
If your package.json contains `"jasmine-core": "^6.0.0-alpha.2`,
NPM might install any later 6.x version even though there is no guarantee of
compatibility. If that isn't ok, you should specify an exact pre-release version:
`"jasmine-core": "6.0.0-alpha.2`.


## Changes to supported environments

Safari 26 is now supported on a best-effort basis.†

Due to the limited availability of Safari 18 and later on free CI services,
Safari support in future jasmine-core versions will be limited to:

* Best-effort support for the latest Safari version available on GitHub Actions,
  which may change at any time.
* Best-effort support for Safari 16 and 17 for as long as it remains practical.

## Bug Fixes

* Fix custom matchers in top-level specs††
  * Merges [#2088](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine/pull/2088) from @bonkevin

## New features

* Larger body font size in HTML reporters
* New Performance tab in HtmlReporterV2 shows metrics and a list of the slowest 
  specs.
* Experimental `safariYieldStrategy: "time"` config option, which may make
  Jasmine run significantly faster in Safari and similar browsers. So far, this 
  option has not been tested on a wide variety of workloads. Feedback is
  appreciated.
* New `extraItStackFrames` and `extraDescribeStackFrames` config options to fix
  the filename properties of reporter events in configurations that wrap
  `it`/`describe`, such as zone.js.†
* `jasmine.allOf asymmetric` equality tester†
  * Merges [#2087](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine/pull/2087) from @jonahd-g
  * Fixes [#2083](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine/issues/2083)
* Re-add support for partial spec name filtering via `spec` query parameter
  * Fixes [#2085](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine/issues/2085).
* Require spec/suite property keys to be strings, not just anything that's 
  cloneable and serializable. This matches the existing API reference
  documentation.

## Documentation improvements

* Fix HtmlReporterV2 ctor example

## Internal Improvements

* Remove code to support browsers that don't have MessageChannel. Jasmine hasn't
  run in any such browsers since 2.x.

† Also likely to be included in a future 5.x release.<br>
†† Also released in 5.12.1.

## Supported environments

This version has been tested in the following environments.

| Environment       | Supported versions             |
|-------------------|--------------------------------|
| Node              | 20, 22, 24                     |
| Safari            | 16**, 17**, 26**               |
| Chrome            | 142*                           |
| Firefox           | 102**, 115**, 128**, 140, 145* |
| Edge              | 142*                           |

\* Evergreen browser. Each version of Jasmine is tested against the latest
version available at release time.<br>
\** Supported on a best-effort basis. Support for these versions may be dropped
if it becomes impractical, and bugs affecting only these versions may not be
treated as release blockers.


------

_Release Notes generated with _[Anchorman](http://github.com/infews/anchorman)_
