# Jasmine Core 6.0.0-beta.1 Release Notes

This is a pre-release, intended to offer a preview of upcoming changes and to
solicit feedback.

A corresponding release of the `jasmine` package is not planned because the 
change in this release only affects browser users.

## A Note About Pre-Release Compatibility

There may be additional breaking changes in future 6.0 pre-releases or in the
final 6.0 release. That's allowed by the semver specification, but users are
sometimes unpleasantly surprised by it.

NPM's implementation of carat version ranges assumes that subsequent
pre-releases and final releases are fully compatible with earlier pre-releases.
If your package.json contains `"jasmine-core": "^6.0.0-beta.1`,
NPM might install any later 6.x version even though there is no guarantee of
compatibility. If that isn't ok, you should specify an exact pre-release version:
`"jasmine-core": "6.0.0-beta.1`.

## Bug Fixes

* Revert to using window.onload in boot1.js. This fixes top level await in
  jasmine-browser-runner.

## Supported environments

This version has been tested in the following environments.

| Environment       | Supported versions             |
|-------------------|--------------------------------|
| Node              | 20, 22, 24                     |
| Safari**          | 16, 17, 26.1                   |
| Chrome            | 143*                           |
| Firefox           | 102**, 115**, 128**, 140, 145* |
| Edge              | 142*                           |

\* Evergreen browser. Each version of Jasmine is tested against the latest
version available at release time.<br>
\** Supported on a best-effort basis. Support for these versions may be dropped
if it becomes impractical, and bugs affecting only these versions may not be
treated as release blockers.

------

_Release Notes generated with _[Anchorman](http://github.com/infews/anchorman)_
