# Jasmine Core 7.0.0-pre.0 Release Notes

This is a pre-release, intended to offer a preview of breaking changes and to
solicit feedback.

Before installing this release, update to 6.0.1 or later and fix all
deprecation warnings.

## Breaking changes

* `HtmlReporter`, `HtmlSpecFilter`, and `jsApiReporter`, which were deprecated
  in 6.0, have been removed.
* Most private APIs are no longer exposed.
* Monkey patching is blocked. This does not affect globals (`describe`, 
  `expect`, etc.) or properties that are explicitly documented as writeable.
  Those can still be overwritten.
* Redesigned boot process:
  * `jasmineRequire`, `boot`, and `noGlobals` have been removed.
  * The core instance is automatically created.
  * In browsers, globals are automatically created.
  * In Node, globals are not automatically created. Call the exported
    `installGlobals` function to create them. If you're using the `jasmine`
    package, this is done for you by default.
  * In Node, the same instance is returned every time jasmine-core is imported.
    If you need to do multiple consecutive independent test runs, call the
    exported `reset` function to reset all state and configuration between runs.

  If you maintain your own browser boot files, you may be able to update by just
  removing `boot1.js`. See the `boot.js` file in this package for a working
  example. If you boot jasmine-core in Node, remove the call to `boot` or
  `noGlobals` and add a call to `installGlobals` if desired:

  ```javascript
  const jasmineCore = require('jasmine-core');
  jasmineCore.installGlobals();
  ```

## Supported environments

This version has been tested in the following environments.

| Environment       | Supported versions             |
|-------------------|--------------------------------|
| Node              | 20, 22, 24                     |
| Safari            | 26.3**                         |
| Chrome            | 144*                           |
| Firefox           | 102**, 115**, 128**, 140, 147* |
| Edge              | 144*                           |

\* Evergreen browser. Each version of Jasmine is tested against the latest
version available at release time.<br>
\** Supported on a best-effort basis. Support for these versions may be dropped
if it becomes impractical, and bugs affecting only these versions may not be
treated as release blockers.

------

_Release Notes generated with _[Anchorman](http://github.com/infews/anchorman)_
